from https://pub.towardsai.net/inside-dinov2-meta-ais-new-self-supervised-learning-model-for-computer-vision-8b61baf37191
code : https://github.com/facebookresearch/dinov2
       -The release includes the pretraining code and recipe for pretraining code 
        and a recipe for ViT-L/16 (300 M params) and ViT-g/14 (1.1 B params) architectures.

** Since the model doesn’t rely on fine-tuning, the backbone remains general, 
   and the same features can be used for many different tasks simultaneously.

## The Architecture
1) Training Pipeline
   The data pipeline includes curated/uncurated data sources, image deduplication, and the retrieval system. 
   The pipeline directly works with images, without requiring metadata or text

   ** The curated datasets
   ImageNet-22k, the train split of ImageNet-1k, Google Landmarks, and several fine-grained datasets

   ** The uncurated data source
   unfiltered dataset of images collected from a publicly available repository of crawled web data

   The deduplication stage removes near-duplicate images, 
   while the self-supervised image retrieval stage builds the curated pretraining dataset 
   by retrieving images close to those in the curated sources. 
   This is done by computing image embeddings using a self-supervised ViT-H/16 network pretrained 
   on ImageNet-22k and using cosine-similarity as a distance measure between images.
   
   ** Uncurated Data & Curated Data --> Embedding(Each dataset) --> Deduplication on only Uncurated embedding 
      --> Retrieval (Curated embedding to deduplicated uncurated embedding) --> Augmented Curated Data

2) Algorithmic Improvements
   In DINOv2, they included additional regularization methods inspired 
   by the similarity search and classification literature to make the training algorithm more stable

   To make larger models tractable, they used the latest mixed-precision and distributed training implementations 
   proposed in the cutting-edge PyTorch 2 (fully sharded data parallel), 
   as well as efficient implementation of the stochastic depth technique and latest compute algorithm implementations 
   of xFormers, particularly variable-length memory-efficient attention

3) Efficient Implementation and Model Distillation
   1. Fast and memory-efficient attention 
      - They implemented their own version of FlashAttention to improve memory usage and speed on the self-attention layers
      - Their ViT-g architecture slightly differs from the original architecture in order to maximize compute efficiency, 
        and they use an embedding dimension of 1536 with 24 heads (64 dim/head), rather than 1408 with 16 heads (88 dim/head). 
      - Their ViT-g backbone counts 1.1B parameters.

   2. Nested tensors in self-attention
      Their version also allows running in the same forward pass the global crops and the local crops 
      (that have different numbers of patch tokens), leading to significant compute efficiency gains compared to 
      using separate forward and backward passes as done in prior implementations.

   3. Efficient stochastic depth
      They implemented an improved stochastic depth that skips the computation of the dropped residuals rather than masking the result
      With high drop rates, this allows a drastic improvement in computing efficiency and memory usage

   4. Fully-Sharded Data Parallel (FSDP)
      They split the model replicas across GPUs using the PyTorch implementation of FSDP.

   5.  Model distillation
       For smaller models, they distilled them from their largest model
       Knowledge distillation aims at reproducing the output of a large model with a smaller model 
       by minimizing some distance between both outputs for a set of given inputs
       
